Improvements to operators documentation (#891)
keep-network/keep-ecdsa: docs/tbtc-liquidation-recovery.adoc

:toc: macro
:source-highlighter: rouge

= tBTC Liquidation Recovery

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

:icons: font
:numbered:
toc::[]

== Background

.As described in xref:rfc/rfc-2.adoc[RFC 2]:
[quote]
____
include::rfc/rfc-2.adoc[tag=background]
____

> Keep ECDSA client implements a mechanism mentioned above to recover BTC after

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep ECDSA client implements the mechanism mentioned above to recover BTC after
```

Author: 4d445deb03bdd43954ecc1262a61675a1d0f35f9

a tBTC Deposit got liquidated and split the amount among the Keep signers holding
the BTC.

== Configuration

> To enable the tBTC Liquidation Recovery mechanism you have to update TOML configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the tBTC Liquidation Recovery mechanism, update the TOML configuration
```

Author: 4d445deb03bdd43954ecc1262a61675a1d0f35f9

> file with details of destination (`BeneficiaryAddress`) to which Bitcoin funds should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file with a destination (`BeneficiaryAddress`) to which Bitcoin funds should
```

Author: 4d445deb03bdd43954ecc1262a61675a1d0f35f9

https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki[BIP 32].

Type of Bitcoin address that will be calculated is resolved based on the `*pub`
prefix, according to https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0132.md[SLIP-0132].

.Addresses Encoding Based on *pub Prefix
[%header,cols="^1m,^2,3m"]
|===
|Prefix
|Address Encoding
^|Sample Address

|xpub
|P2PKH (Legacy)
|1L3mGzLD9XLXKxkgLB5Gc6rW6s4ik4yd2r

|ypub
|P2WPKH nested in P2SH (Segwit)
|3DMLhAwVrJxePftA8Q5emyoNFCj8Jn1q64

|zpub
|P2WPKH (Native Segwit)
|bc1q6rczu6pcv2eq9gh9xvrwx6y9uhxk88f8xm020g
|===

For more examples see xref:run-keep-ecdsa.adoc#example-beneficiary-addresses[Example Beneficiary Addresses].

If the extended public key is provided the client will resolve a unique and unused
Bitcoin address for each Bitcoin transaction.

Addresses are resolved starting from `0` index. The index is incremented by 1 in
case of the address being used already.

The highest used index for the extended public keys will be stored in the client's
local storage directory under `bitcoin/derivation_indexes/<EXTENDED_PUBLIC_KEY_ID>/<INDEX>`
(e.g. `bitcoin/derivation_indexes/xpub_b1wex5vq/3`).

> Additionally to the local storage check the client will reach Bitcoin API to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client will additionally reach the Bitcoin API to
```

Author: 4d445deb03bdd43954ecc1262a61675a1d0f35f9

check if there are any existing transactions for the given address.

If the Bitcoin connection is missing the client will check the address usage
based on the local storage only.

=== Bitcoin Chain Connectivity

> Connectivity to Bitcoin chain API is used for liquidation recovery handling but is not required for the process to complete.

Reviewer: Here we call it the Bitcoin chain API, but above we cal it just the Bitcoin API. I think we can standardize one one for consistency. (My vote is Bitcoin API but my preference isn't strong)

Author: 4d445deb03bdd43954ecc1262a61675a1d0f35f9
